.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

3.0.0 - May 04, 2026
====================


.. only:: html

   .. contents::
        :local:
        :depth: 3

Breaking changes
----------------
- If the extension setting ``klaroConfigurationPath`` is configured, the
  dynamically generated Klaro configuration is now served from that path
  instead of being rendered inline.

  The default value is ``/klaro-config.js``.

  Previously, this path could be used in addition to the default inline output.
  With this change, the external configuration path replaces the inline output
  whenever ``klaroConfigurationPath`` is set.

  If no path is configured, the frontend output continues to fall back to the
  previous inline notation.

  Please review and adjust your Content Security Policy configuration
  accordingly, especially if it previously allowed only inline Klaro
  configuration output.

- If you still include TypoScript through a static include in the
  ``sys_template`` record, you must renew this include in the corresponding
  template record.

  Previously, the Site Set path
  ``Configuration/Sets/KlaroConsentManager`` was used directly as the static
  TypoScript include path. This has changed to ``Configuration/TypoScript``.

  This change ensures a clear separation between the two supported
  configuration mechanisms: Site Set settings and TypoScript constants.

  The extension now uses either Site Set settings or TypoScript constants.
  Mixing both configuration sources is no longer intended and should be
  avoided.

  Please remove the previous static include from the ``sys_template`` record
  and add the new one again.

All Changes
-----------
This is a list of all changes in this release: ::

    2026-05-04 [BUGFIX] Fix missing constants on static TypoScript include (Commit 17695d7 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [TASK] Update modified FSC default layout (Commit dd358e4 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [DOCS] Update images in documentation (Commit 58a8dd7 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [BUGFIX] Make button color compatible with camino theme (Commit 94fc8e5 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [TASK] Run PHP CS Fixer (Commit 220e05a by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [BUGFIX] Fix Klaro config asset URI handling (Commit 8a6f6e3 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [BUGFIX] Fix array key undefined error (Commit 63479cb by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [!!!][TASK] Use Klaro config path by default (Commit 4248fdd by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [TASK] Remove obsolete TYPO3 version check (Commit b66a4d0 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-04 [BUGFIX] Use version-specific CSP asset option (Commit cd3db60 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-03 [BUGFIX] Replace usage of deprecated useNonce with csp (#19) (Commit 202bbd0 by Alexander Schnitzler)
    2026-05-01 [TASK] Improve requirements in composer.json (Commit 18da180 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-01 [TASK] Use factory for request-bound KlaroService (Commit d469c6f by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-01 [DOCS] Improve internal links in documentation (Commit e0d65fc by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-01 [DOCS] Update documentation (Commit 4e74662 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-01 [TASK] Add missing service "klaro", "adobe-fonts", "salesviewer" and "career-captain" (Commit db14608 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-05-01 [TASK] General code refactoring (Commit a59f1c2 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-04-30 [TASK] Move legacy TypoScript constants to Configuration/TypoScript/ (Commit 03d9e4e by Eric Harrer)
    2026-04-30 [TASK] Modernize TCA valuePicker item definitions (Commit f941d58 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-04-29 [TASK] Run PHP CS Fixer (Commit a4dcf3f by Eric Harrer)
    2026-04-29 [TASK] Use generic view factory to initialise view (Commit 46de033 by Eric Harrer)
    2026-04-29 [TASK] Apply rector rules (Commit 4995c56 by Eric Harrer)

This list has been created by using `git log $(git describe --tags --abbrev=0)..HEAD --abbrev-commit --pretty='%ad %s (Commit %h by %an)' --date=short`.
